README.md, before:

# Easy OCR

Ready-to-use OCR with 40+ languages supported including Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Thai.

## Examples

![example](examples/example.png)

![example2](examples/example2.png)

## Supported Languages

We are currently supporting following 42 languages.

Afrikaans (af), Azerbaijani (az), Bosnian (bs), Simplified Chinese (ch_sim),
Traditional Chinese (ch_tra), Czech (cs), Welsh (cy),
Danish (da), German (de), English (en), Spanish (es), Estonian (et),
French (fr), Irish (ga), Croatian (hr), Hungarian (hu), Indonesian (id),
Icelandic (is), Italian (it), Japanese (ja), Korean (ko), Kurdish (ku),
Latin (la), Lithuanian (lt),
Latvian (lv), Maori (mi), Malay (ms), Maltese (mt), Dutch (nl), Norwegian (no),
Polish (pl), Portuguese (pt),Romanian (ro), Slovak (sk) (need revisit), Slovenian (sl),
Albanian (sq), Swedish (sv),Swahili (sw), Thai (th), Tagalog (tl),
Turkish (tr), Uzbek (uz), Vietnamese (vi) (need revisit)

List of characters is in folder easyocr/character. If you are native speaker
of any language and think we should add or remove any character,
please create an issue and/or pull request (like [this one](https://github.com/JaidedAI/EasyOCR/pull/15)).

## Installation

Install using `pip` for stable release,

``` bash
pip install easyocr
```

For latest development release,

``` bash
pip install git+git://github.com/jaidedai/easyocr.git
```

Note: for Windows, please install torch and torchvision first by following official instruction here https://pytorch.org

## Usage

``` python
import easyocr
reader = easyocr.Reader(['ch_tra','en'])
reader.readtext('chinese.jpg')
```

Note: Instead of filepath 'chinese.jpg', you can also pass OpenCV image object (numpy array) or image file as bytes.

Model weight for chosen language will be automatically downloaded or you can
download it manually from the following links and put it in '~/.EasyOCR/model' folder

[text detection model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tdItXPoFFeKBtkxb9HBYdBGo-SyMg1m0/view?usp=sharing)

[latin model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1M7Lj3OtUsaoppD4ZKudjepzCMsXKlxp3/view?usp=sharing)

[chinese (traditional) model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xWyQC9NIZHNtgz57yofgj2N91rpwBrjh/view?usp=sharing)

[chinese (simplified) model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-jN_R1M4tdlWunRnD5T_Yqb7Io5nNJoR/view?usp=sharing)

[japanese model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ftAeVI6W8HvpLL1EwrQdvuLss23vYqPu/view?usp=sharing)

[korean model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UBKX7dHybcwKK_i2fYx_CXaL1hrTzQ6y/view?usp=sharing)

[thai model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14BEuxcfmS0qWi3m9RsxwcUsjavM3rFMa/view?usp=sharing)

Output will be in list format, each item represents bounding box, text and confident level, respectively.

``` bash
[([[189, 75], [469, 75], [469, 165], [189, 165]], '愚園路', 0.97784423828125),
 ([[86, 80], [134, 80], [134, 128], [86, 128]], '西', 0.9951117038726807),
 ([[517, 81], [565, 81], [565, 123], [517, 123]], '東', 0.9558971524238586),
 ([[78, 126], [136, 126], [136, 156], [78, 156]], '315', 0.6018078923225403),
 ([[514, 126], [574, 126], [574, 156], [514, 156]], '309', 0.8362029194831848),
 ([[226, 170], [414, 170], [414, 220], [226, 220]], 'Yuyuan Rd.', 0.8912249207496643),
 ([[79, 173], [125, 173], [125, 213], [79, 213]], 'W', 0.9854364395141602),
 ([[529, 173], [569, 173], [569, 213], [529, 213]], 'E', 0.5593774318695068)]
```

In case you do not have GPU or your GPU has low memory, you can run it in CPU mode by adding gpu = False

``` python
reader = easyocr.Reader(['th','en'], gpu = False)
```

There are optional arguments for readtext function, `decoder` can be 'greedy'(default), 'beamsearch', or 'wordbeamsearch'. For 'beamsearch' and 'wordbeamsearch', you can also set `beamWidth` (default=5). Bigger number will be slower but can be more accurate. For multiprocessing, you can set `workers` and `batch_size`. Current version converts image into grey scale for recognition model, so contrast can be an issue. You can try playing with `contrast_ths`, `adjust_contrast` and `filter_ths`. `whitelist` and `blacklist` accept input in string (like this blacklist = '!&$%').

## To be implemented

1. Language packs: Hindi, Arabic, Cyrillic alphabet, etc.
2. Language model for better decoding
3. Better documentation and api

## Acknowledgement and References

This project is based on researches/codes from several papers/open-source repositories.

Detection part is using CRAFT algorithm from this [official repository](https://github.com/clovaai/CRAFT-pytorch) and their [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01941).

Recognition model is CRNN ([paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1507.05717)). It is composed of 3 main components, feature extraction (we are currently using [Resnet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385)), sequence labeling ([LSTM](https://www.bioinf.jku.at/publications/older/2604.pdf)) and decoding ([CTC](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~graves/icml_2006.pdf)). Training pipeline for recognition part is a modified version from this [repository](https://github.com/clovaai/deep-text-recognition-benchmark).

Beam search code is based on this [repository](https://github.com/githubharald/CTCDecoder) and his [blog](https://towardsdatascience.com/beam-search-decoding-in-ctc-trained-neural-networks-5a889a3d85a7).

And good read about CTC from distill.pub [here](https://distill.pub/2017/ctc/).

## Want To Contribute?

Let's advance humanity together by making AI available to everyone!

Please create issue to report bug or suggest new feature. Pull requests are welcome. Or if you found this library useful, just tell your friend about it.

## Guideline for new language request

To request a new language support, I need you to send a PR with 2 following files

1. In folder easyocr/character, We need 'yourlanguagecode_char.txt' that contains list of all characters. Please see format/example from other files in that folder.
2. In folder easyocr/dict, We need 'yourlanguagecode.txt' that contains list of words in your language. On average we have ~30000 words per language with more than 50000 words for popular one. More is better in this file.

If your language has unique elements (such as 1. Arabic: characters change form when attach to each other + write from right to left 2. Thai: Some characters need to be above the line and some below), please educate me with your best ability and/or give useful links. It is important to take care of the detail to achieve a system that really works.

Lastly, please understand that my priority will have to go to popular language or set of languages that share most of characters together (also tell me if your language share a lot of characters with other). It takes me at least a week to work for new model. You may have to wait a while for new model to be released.

See [List of languages in development](https://github.com/JaidedAI/EasyOCR/issues/91)

Commit message:

Add Colab demo link and badge

README.md, after:

# Easy OCR

Ready-to-use OCR with 40+ languages supported including Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Thai.

## Examples

See this [Colab Demo](https://colab.fan/easyocr). You can run just it in the browser.
[![Open in Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.fan/easyocr)

![example](examples/example.png)

![example2](examples/example2.png)

## Supported Languages

We are currently supporting following 42 languages.

Afrikaans (af), Azerbaijani (az), Bosnian (bs), Simplified Chinese (ch_sim),
Traditional Chinese (ch_tra), Czech (cs), Welsh (cy),
Danish (da), German (de), English (en), Spanish (es), Estonian (et),
French (fr), Irish (ga), Croatian (hr), Hungarian (hu), Indonesian (id),
Icelandic (is), Italian (it), Japanese (ja), Korean (ko), Kurdish (ku),
Latin (la), Lithuanian (lt),
Latvian (lv), Maori (mi), Malay (ms), Maltese (mt), Dutch (nl), Norwegian (no),
Polish (pl), Portuguese (pt),Romanian (ro), Slovak (sk) (need revisit), Slovenian (sl),
Albanian (sq), Swedish (sv),Swahili (sw), Thai (th), Tagalog (tl),
Turkish (tr), Uzbek (uz), Vietnamese (vi) (need revisit)

List of characters is in folder easyocr/character. If you are native speaker
of any language and think we should add or remove any character,
please create an issue and/or pull request (like [this one](https://github.com/JaidedAI/EasyOCR/pull/15)).

## Installation

Install using `pip` for stable release,

``` bash
pip install easyocr
```

For latest development release,

``` bash
pip install git+git://github.com/jaidedai/easyocr.git
```

Note: for Windows, please install torch and torchvision first by following official instruction here https://pytorch.org

## Usage

``` python
import easyocr
reader = easyocr.Reader(['ch_tra','en'])
reader.readtext('chinese.jpg')
```

Note: Instead of filepath 'chinese.jpg', you can also pass OpenCV image object (numpy array) or image file as bytes.

Model weight for chosen language will be automatically downloaded or you can
download it manually from the following links and put it in '~/.EasyOCR/model' folder

[text detection model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tdItXPoFFeKBtkxb9HBYdBGo-SyMg1m0/view?usp=sharing)

[latin model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1M7Lj3OtUsaoppD4ZKudjepzCMsXKlxp3/view?usp=sharing)

[chinese (traditional) model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xWyQC9NIZHNtgz57yofgj2N91rpwBrjh/view?usp=sharing)

[chinese (simplified) model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-jN_R1M4tdlWunRnD5T_Yqb7Io5nNJoR/view?usp=sharing)

[japanese model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ftAeVI6W8HvpLL1EwrQdvuLss23vYqPu/view?usp=sharing)

[korean model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UBKX7dHybcwKK_i2fYx_CXaL1hrTzQ6y/view?usp=sharing)

[thai model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/14BEuxcfmS0qWi3m9RsxwcUsjavM3rFMa/view?usp=sharing)

Output will be in list format, each item represents bounding box, text and confident level, respectively.

``` bash
[([[189, 75], [469, 75], [469, 165], [189, 165]], '愚園路', 0.97784423828125),
 ([[86, 80], [134, 80], [134, 128], [86, 128]], '西', 0.9951117038726807),
 ([[517, 81], [565, 81], [565, 123], [517, 123]], '東', 0.9558971524238586),
 ([[78, 126], [136, 126], [136, 156], [78, 156]], '315', 0.6018078923225403),
 ([[514, 126], [574, 126], [574, 156], [514, 156]], '309', 0.8362029194831848),
 ([[226, 170], [414, 170], [414, 220], [226, 220]], 'Yuyuan Rd.', 0.8912249207496643),
 ([[79, 173], [125, 173], [125, 213], [79, 213]], 'W', 0.9854364395141602),
 ([[529, 173], [569, 173], [569, 213], [529, 213]], 'E', 0.5593774318695068)]
```

In case you do not have GPU or your GPU has low memory, you can run it in CPU mode by adding gpu = False

``` python
reader = easyocr.Reader(['th','en'], gpu = False)
```

There are optional arguments for readtext function, `decoder` can be 'greedy'(default), 'beamsearch', or 'wordbeamsearch'. For 'beamsearch' and 'wordbeamsearch', you can also set `beamWidth` (default=5). Bigger number will be slower but can be more accurate. For multiprocessing, you can set `workers` and `batch_size`. Current version converts image into grey scale for recognition model, so contrast can be an issue. You can try playing with `contrast_ths`, `adjust_contrast` and `filter_ths`. `whitelist` and `blacklist` accept input in string (like this blacklist = '!&$%').

## To be implemented

1. Language packs: Hindi, Arabic, Cyrillic alphabet, etc.
2. Language model for better decoding
3. Better documentation and api

## Acknowledgement and References

This project is based on researches/codes from several papers/open-source repositories.

Detection part is using CRAFT algorithm from this [official repository](https://github.com/clovaai/CRAFT-pytorch) and their [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.01941).

Recognition model is CRNN ([paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1507.05717)). It is composed of 3 main components, feature extraction (we are currently using [Resnet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385)), sequence labeling ([LSTM](https://www.bioinf.jku.at/publications/older/2604.pdf)) and decoding ([CTC](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~graves/icml_2006.pdf)). Training pipeline for recognition part is a modified version from this [repository](https://github.com/clovaai/deep-text-recognition-benchmark).

Beam search code is based on this [repository](https://github.com/githubharald/CTCDecoder) and his [blog](https://towardsdatascience.com/beam-search-decoding-in-ctc-trained-neural-networks-5a889a3d85a7).

And good read about CTC from distill.pub [here](https://distill.pub/2017/ctc/).

## Want To Contribute?

Let's advance humanity together by making AI available to everyone!

Please create issue to report bug or suggest new feature. Pull requests are welcome. Or if you found this library useful, just tell your friend about it.

## Guideline for new language request

To request a new language support, I need you to send a PR with 2 following files

1. In folder easyocr/character, We need 'yourlanguagecode_char.txt' that contains list of all characters. Please see format/example from other files in that folder.
2. In folder easyocr/dict, We need 'yourlanguagecode.txt' that contains list of words in your language. On average we have ~30000 words per language with more than 50000 words for popular one. More is better in this file.

If your language has unique elements (such as 1. Arabic: characters change form when attach to each other + write from right to left 2. Thai: Some characters need to be above the line and some below), please educate me with your best ability and/or give useful links. It is important to take care of the detail to achieve a system that really works.

Lastly, please understand that my priority will have to go to popular language or set of languages that share most of characters together (also tell me if your language share a lot of characters with other). It takes me at least a week to work for new model. You may have to wait a while for new model to be released.

See [List of languages in development](https://github.com/JaidedAI/EasyOCR/issues/91)
